A Primer on
Philippine Science High School
Class of 1991 Foundation

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Vision

We are a valuable resource for our country. We succeed in our individual fields and are the pride of our Alma Mater. We are respected leaders in the various fields of academe and industry to which we belong. 

We are a service-oriented Foundation. We are committed to the service of our nation and our people, specifically along the lines of our scientific background and expertise. We seek to improve the quality of science education in any way within our means. 

We are active Alumni of our Alma Mater. We seek to improve the quality of education in PSHS through our contributions and participation in the various programs initiated by the PSHS Alumni Association. We initiate and execute our own programs for the PSHS system.

We are good friends to each other. The Foundation will be our venue to renew ties and build strong friendships. 


Purpose

To serve our country/ repay our debt as scholars of the people. 
To ensure that the PSHS standards of excellence are improved/ maintained. 
To participate in activities of the PSHS Alumni Association. 
To help our own individual interests while doing the above three.
Strategy

In order to achieve our vision, we will:

Stay connected to each other. Our communication lines have to be open and efficient. Information dissemination and response times should be fast. Our batch mailing list and e-groups should be used optimally in order to achieve this.

Leverage our skills. We have batch mates in various fields: finance, engineering, advertising, literature, sciences, etc. We can make use of all our acquired skills to help with the programs of the foundation.

Make time for the Foundation. We participate in the activities which best need our individual expertise and make the effort to stay up to date with the Foundation's programs.

Enjoy ourselves! First and foremost we are batchmates, with shared experiences and the common background of 4 years in Pisay. The Foundation gives us the opportunity to work for a common cause while developing our social relationships, and its activities will include the participation of our families.

 

Ideas for Projects

Elementary Education Improvement Program – seek to improve the curriculum and capability of public elementary schools by facilitating discussions between school officials/ teachers, credited educators, PSHS faculty, and our own Alumni "experts" on how to improve the current curriculum; and by helping provide the schools with the necessary tools to implement the new curriculum. 
GOAL: Improve quality of science/ math education of elementary public schools via review and upgrade of their curriculum. 
MEASURE: Graduates from the new, improved curriculum should be capable of passing the PSHS exam. 
INITIAL THOUGHTS 
Link with DECS/ DOST, faculty from UP College of Education, faculty from PSHS, and our own "experts" (graduates from Math, the basic Sciences, and Education). 
Start with one pilot school, preferably with small student population so program is easier to facilitate. 
This is a long-term project. We target grades 4-6 so results will be seen in 3 years. 
We facilitate discussions on improving the curriculum and then we need to commit to supporting the improved curriculum via providing books, teaching materials (computers, TV/ VHS sets), arranging for guest instructors, maybe even sending the teachers back to school.

Science/ Math Demo Kits for High Schools – seek to elicit the interest of high school students in the Science/ Math fields by showing them attractive applications of the different fields. The demos will encourage the students to enroll in Math or Science courses in college. 
GOAL: Increase the number of graduates who will enroll in Math or Science courses. 
MEASURE: We can measure this via a survey of intent after the demo. 
INITIAL THOUGHTS: 
Demo kits should be easy to assemble, made up of ordinary household items/ chemicals. E.g. How to put an egg in a bottle, how to make invisible ink, etc. 
The demo has to be fun, but the complete scientific explanation should be given at the end to achieve the purpose. 
We can involve PSHS students, graduates, and teachers during the demo. 
We can target to go around giving the demos once a year to 4th year high school students. We can target different regions each year.

Donation to PSHS Alumni Association – PSHS is fortunate to have an active Alumni Association. As members of the alumni, we will participate in and contribute towards the different projects and activities of the PSHS Alumni Assoc. We will commit to donate a fixed amount to the Alumni Assoc. every year. 
GOAL: Contribute to the programs of the PSHS Alumni Association. 
MEASURE: Annual donation of a fixed amount (e.g. P20,000) to the Association, to use in their programs at their discretion. 
INITIAL THOUGHTS: 
We can still donate more funds outside of our annual donation, but additional donations will be targeted for a specific use that we will set.

Fund Generation – there is a need to generate funds to support the activities proposed above, plus any other future activities of the Foundation. 
GOAL: Generate a target amount of P 100,000 per year. 
MEASURE: All projects are funded. 
INITIAL THOUGHTS: 
"Isko/ Iska Fund" – annual membership fee (minimum P100) 
Movie Premiere – capital of ~P60,000, 3 months lead time, 10 people in committee 
Solicit donations from other batches/ foundations. We can advertise our activities during homecoming, have a brochure of our plans and ask for personal/ company pledges. 
Get support from the companies in which we work. Ask for donations in cash or kind (old computers, TV/ VHS, company products). 
Approach other funding agencies: DOST, SEI, Caltex, Shell, BPI, etc.


First Published: July 6, 2000
Added the TNT's Context Setting: July 7, 2000
Added the Vandal corner: July 19, 2000
http://www.geocities.com/ka_edong/91/foundation.htm
by edwin
